[Music]
hi I the beauty of food and welcome to
boss the basics show you how to make a
classic sponge cake so for a sponge we
need 225 grams of soft butter 225 grams
of sugar I'm using golden caster sugar
you could use white castor sugar
225 grams of self-raising flour that's
the same quantity the flour sugar and
butter then we need four eggs some
vanilla and a pinch of salt so the first
thing we need to do is we need to be our
butter and our sugar together until
light and fluffy
[Music]
now we're going to add about a teaspoon
of vanilla extract and that goes and
then we're just going to add our eggs
one at a time beating well as each one
is over
[Music]
so the next thing we need to do is we
need to fold our flower through almost
they're going around a pinch of salt
which is now when it goes in we want
small pinch of salt and then we are
going to add our flour all of it at once
and then very gently fold the flour
through until it's all been incorporated
so I'm using a metal spoon and I am just
lifting and folding consistency of
batter that easily falls off spoon so
that is perfect now we divide the
mixture between our two cake tins so you
can spit roughly by half in each
[Music]
[Applause]
now we're the Baker cakes for about 25
minutes in an oven at 180 which is 165
that's really important that for the
first 15 minutes you do not open the
door that will cause your case to sink
takes about 25 minutes they're out the
oven now I can tell they're cook because
they're all springy
they're coming away from the sides of
the pan then get a skewer and insert the
skewer into the cake if it comes up
clean like that one as with no cake
batter on it at all then you know that
it's ready so I'm gonna leave them for
10 minutes to call in their tins and
then we will be ready to take them out
and leave them to cool completely
so I plate to cool completely now what
we need to do is stack them I've got a
simple buttercream you can find the
recipe of eating of food calm and I've
got some Jam I'm sticking with the
classics but you can fill them with
whatever you want some lemon curd be
really nice fresh fruits and whipped
cream all delicious but yeah I'm
sticking with the classics
[Music]
so there you go that's how you make a
simple sponge cake this has been pasta
basics embodied is Missouri thank you
very much for watching and don't forget
stay safe get cooking
[Music]
you